---
title: 'News (2021)'
date: 2021-01-01
permalink: /posts/news/2021
tags:
  - news
  - jp
---

Here are the exciting moments in 2021! We have [other news posts](/tags/#news).

- 2021/12/16: Yosuke presented a poster on his recent manuscript, "[Significant Sparse Polygenic Risk Scores across 813 traits in UK Biobank](/publication/preprint-2021-09-06-PRSmap)" at American Society of Human Genetics annual meeting 2021 (virtual).
- 2021/11/26: **Updated manuscript**. We posted updated manuscript, titled [Significant Sparse Polygenic Risk Scores across 813 traits in UK Biobank](/publication/preprint-2021-09-06-PRSmap) on medRxiv.
- 2021/11/24: **New Publication**. "[Bayesian model comparison for rare-variant association studies
Author links open overlay panel](/publication/2021-11-25-MRP)." ([Link to the full text](https://authors.elsevier.com/c/1e863geW~j2B)). Congratulations, Guhan and the team!
- 2021/11/23: **New Manuscript**. "[Single-cell dissection of obesity-exercise axis in adipose-muscle tissues](/publication/preprint-2021-11-24-scMetab)." Congratulations, Jackie (Jiekun), Maria, Pasquale, and the team!
- 2021/10/18-22: Yosuke presented a poster on his recent manuscript, "[Significant Sparse Polygenic Risk Scores across 428 traits in UK Biobank](/publication/preprint-2021-09-06-PRSmap)" at American Society of Human Genetics annual meeting 2021 (virtual).
- 2021/9/30: **New Publication** "[A cross-population atlas of genetic associations for 220 human phenotypes](/publication/2021-09-30-DeGAs-BBJ)" ([full-text link](https://rdcu.be/cyG6p)). In this project co-led by [Saori](https://twitter.com/saorisakaue) and [Masa](https://mkanai.github.io/), we defined 220 disease end points in Biobank Japan and performed GWAS meta-analysis with the corresponding phenotypes in European populations in the UK and Finland. We dissected latent DeGAs components of multi-ethnic association summary statistics. This paper was highlighted in the cover of the journal. Huge congratulations to Saori, Masa, and the team!
- 2021/9/21: **New Publication** "[APOC3 genetic variation, serum triglycerides, and risk of coronary artery disease in Asian Indians, Europeans, and other ethnic groups](/publication/2021-09-21-ApoC3)." We examined the causal relationship between the genetically increased triglycerides and the risk of coronary artery diseases in Asian Indians.
- 2021/9/7: **New Manuscript**. "[Significant Sparse Polygenic Risk Scores across 428 traits in UK Biobank](/publication/preprint-2021-09-06-PRSmap)." We performed a systematic assessment of the predictive performance of PRS models across >1,600 traits in UK Biobank and report 428 PRS models with significant predictive performance.
- 2021/8/5: **New Manuscript**. Our [preprint describing Multiple Rare-Variants and Phenotypes Mixture Model (MRPMM), an application of Bayesian Mixture Model for the analysis of rare-variants is now posted on bioRxiv](/publication/preprint-2021-08-05-MRPMM). Congratulations, Guhan!
- 2021/7/24: **Updated manuscript**. Our latest version of [the preprint describing the MRP model, a Bayesian model comparison-based approach for rare-variant association studies](/publication/preprint-2021-07-24-MRP), is now posted on bioRxiv. In this update, we describe the latest results from the exome-sequencing analysis of ~200,000 individuals from UK Biobank. Congratulations, Guhan!
- 2021/7/8: **New Publication**. The COVID19 Host Genetics Initiative's [flaghip paper is published](/publication/2021-07-08-covid19HGI). I am one of the 2,000+ co-authors of this paper. Congrats for everbody involved.
- 2021/7/1: Hello, Boston/Cambridge! Yosuke started his postdoc appointment at MIT computational biology lab (PI: Prof. Manolis Kellis).
- 2021/6/19: **New Publication**. Our paper describing `snpnet-v2` and `sparse-snpnet` is now published! Congratulations, Ruilin!
  - ["Fast Numerical Optimization for Genome Sequencing Data in Population Biobanks"](/publication/2021-06-19-snpnet-v2) ([full-text link](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformatics/advance-article/doi/10.1093/bioinformatics/btab452/6306404?guestAccessKey=fdacd437-9789-4223-8731-86e413f879db))
- 2021/6/13: Commencement day at Stanford. Yosuke received Ph.D. He is grateful for all the support and help he received.
- 2021/5/13: Yosuke will present ([WhichTF](/publication/preprint-2019-08-20-whichtf)) at [Stanford Cardiovasular Institute's Research Roundtable (Zoom seminar)](/talks/2021-05-13-CVI).
- 2021/5/11-14: Yosuke will present a poster on "Significant Sparse Polygenic Risk Scores in 428 traits in UK Biobank" at the Biology of Genomes virtual meeting ([#poster-324 channel](https://cshlmc-genome21.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=poster-324) on the conference slack).
- 2021/5/3: **[Yosuke passed his Ph.D. defense](/talks/2021-05-03-PhD-defense)!** Thank you very much for everyone who supported me along the way.
- 2021/4/23: **New Publication** (review article in Japanese). [複数の表現型を用いた人類遺伝統計学の大規模情報解析 (Large-scale human genetic statistical inference with multiple phenotypes)](/publication/2021-04-23-JSBi-review). GWAS、polygenic risk score、高次元データセットでの penalized regression (Lasso など) に関する人類統計遺伝学の解析手法について執筆しました。
- 2021/4/21: Yosuke gave an invited lecture on [Japanese Education](/teaching/2021-04-21-ENGR159Q).
- 2021/1/18: **New Publication**. ["Genetics of 35 blood and urine biomarkers in the UK Biobank"](/publication/2021-01-18-biomarkers). In this project co-led by Nasa Sinnott-Armstrong, myself, and Dr. Manuel A. Rivas, we performed large-scale characterization of the genetic basis of biomarkers and cataloged their influence on diseases. We developed the 'multi-PRS' method and demonstrated its improved ability of disease prediction. Please check out [highlights](/publication/2021-01-18-biomarkers) and the [full-text link](https://rdcu.be/cdMmM).
  - 2021/1/29 **Update**: Our paper is featured as [Research highlights in Nature Reviews Nephrology](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41581-021-00400-y)
  - 2021/2/25 **Update**: Our paper is [recommended in Faculty Opinions](https://facultyopinions.com/prime/739382438?key=f7aXbm1AwTY4cdc)
- 2021/2/16: **New Manuscript**. We have a new preprint led by Ruilin Li describing a new version of the R snpnet package and its application to the exome sequencing data in UK Biobank: ["Fast Numerical Optimization for Genome Sequencing Data in Population Biobanks"](/publication/preprint_2021-02-16-snpnet-v2).
- 2021/2/9: **New Publications**. We have two papers from the Rivas lab. Yosuke contributed to each of them as the second author and is very excited to see them published! Congratulations, Matt and Ruilin!
  - ["Survival Analysis on Rare Events Using Group-Regularized Multi-Response Cox Regression"](/publication/2021-02-09-mr-cox)
  - ["Polygenic risk modeling with latent trait-related genetic components"](/publication/2021-02-08-dPRS) ([full-text link via ReadCube](https://rdcu.be/ceXyy))

Go back to the [top page](/) to see the latest news.
